README.md, before:

`via` is a more efficient way to interact with your computer.

# Concept

Everything should be at most a few keystrokes away.

Nobody should ever:

- browse folders searching for a file
- reach for the mouse to open a file or launch an application
- waste time doing things that should be done by a computer.

# Usage

`via` can:

- open files (`/home/user/file.txt`)
- open folders (`/home/user/music`)
- open websites (`https://example.com`)
- launch applications (`passmenu`)
- run shell commands (`pkill hung`, `st mutt`)

# Configuration

`via-feed` is a simple script that generates the options and writes them to standard output.
In its default state, the user can conveniently edit the `shortcuts` and `websites` files, but he is encouraged to edit `via-feed` itself.
In particular, the `find` command may be tweaked to exclude big folders that shouldn't be indexed.

`via-feed` shouldn't take more than 100 milliseconds for best usability; if it does, either try tweaking it to make it faster, or take a look at the `separate-cache` branch.

# Installation

It is advisable to bind `via` to a hotkey such as `Alt-Space`.

# Technicalities

`via` relies on a few parts:

- something to generate a list of files based on criteria (`find`)
- a menu able to show a list, filter it and select an option according to user input (`dmenu`)
- a file opener (`vopen`)

However, `via` is a concept and as such it is implementation-independent. It can easily be customized to work with other programs. For example, `dmenu` can be substituted by `fzf` run in a terminal; `vopen` can be substituted by `xdg-open`.

Commit message:

split in via-{feed,menu,open}

README.md, after:

`via` is a more efficient way to interact with your computer.

# Concept

Everything should be at most a few keystrokes away.

Nobody should ever:

- browse folders searching for a file
- reach for the mouse to open a file or launch an application
- waste time doing things that should be done by a computer.

# Structure

via is made up of three parts:

- `via-feed` generates a list of menu options
- `via-menu` interacts with the user
- `via-open` opens or launches the choice

# Usage

`via` can:

- open files (`/home/user/file.txt`)
- open folders (`/home/user/music`)
- open websites (`https://example.com`)
- launch applications (`passmenu`)
- run shell commands (`pkill hung`, `st mutt`)

# Configuration

`via-feed` is a simple script that generates the options and writes them to standard output.
In its default state, the user can conveniently edit the `shortcuts` and `websites` files, but he is encouraged to edit `via-feed` itself.
In particular, the `find` command may be tweaked to exclude big folders that shouldn't be indexed.

`via-feed` shouldn't take more than 100 milliseconds for best usability; if it does, either try tweaking it to make it faster, or take a look at the `separate-cache` branch.

# Installation

It is advisable to bind `via` to a hotkey such as `Alt-Space`.

# Technicalities

`via` relies on a few parts:

- something to generate a list of files based on criteria (`find`)
- a menu able to show a list, filter it and select an option according to user input (`dmenu`)
- a file opener (`vopen`)

However, `via` is a concept and as such it is implementation-independent. It can easily be customized to work with other programs. For example, `dmenu` can be substituted by `fzf` run in a terminal; `vopen` can be substituted by `xdg-open`.
